In the 30 person organization, you see
an opportunity and you just do it.
Almost every large organization has a
bureaucracy problem, but a lot of times
things just don't happen because it's it
there's just too much overhead. It's not
that the organization is healthy and
then it gets a virus. Is actually the
composition of the organization is
what's creating bureaucracy.
I'm here with Bill Anderson. You've
never heard of him, but you're about to
understand why he's one of the most
fascinating CEOs operating today. Bill
runs Bayer. It's a company that's been
around since 1863.
They invented aspirin. This is a
160year-old pharmaceutical and
agricultural giant. When Bill joined, it
had a 100,000 employees spread all over
the globe. By every measure, it should
be the poster child for corporate
bureaucracy. Here's what makes Bill
interesting. Since taking over as CEO 2
years ago, he's essentially torn down
and rebuilt how the entire company
operates. He's flattened 11 layers of
management, expanded some managers
direct reports from 60 to 90, and thrown
out the entire budgeting and planning
process. This episode's not just theory.
This is a realworld case study of how to
scale without becoming sclerotic, how to
stay agile even at massive size, and
frankly, how to avoid the bureaucratic
death spiral that kills most growing
companies. You'll learn why bureaucracy
doesn't infect organizations, it comes
from within. Why the key to staying
nimble as you scale is the kind of
people you hire. And why the key to
earning trust as a leader is admitting
when you don't know what the hell you're
doing. Before you think, well, it's easy
to build the organization you want at a
huge company with unlimited resources.
Remember, Bill's doing this while
navigating patent cliffs, regulatory
challenges, and shareholders looking for
him to turn the stock around. If you're
a founder going from a 100 to a,000
employees, if you're trying to maintain
startup energy as you scale, or if
you're just frustrated by the speed of
your organization, this is a
conversation for you. Bill's basically
created a playbook for organizational
transformation I wish I'd had when we
were building HubSpot. Bill, amazing to
have you, my friend. One of the things
I've noticed these days is the rule book
for being a CEO and the best practices
seems to be getting rethought. Man,
you're the perfect guest because from
inside a company that's over 160 years
old with 100,000 employees. You seem to
be rethinking how to run a company. And
so, thanks for coming on. Really
appreciate it.
>> Yeah, thanks for the invitation, Brian.
Glad to be here.
>> Tell me a little bit what's broken. You
know, what what do CEOs have wrong? What
are companies doing wrong? what you know
what what's the problem? Why did you
have to attack this?
>> Many companies have their own very
specific problems, but almost every
large organization has a bureaucracy
problem. And uh it's really interesting
because this is something that I've been
trying to get my head around for yeah
probably at least two decades.
And I say that because I think I I
became a manager first about 25 years
ago. And um and I noticed, you know,
when I was a new manager that one of the
things that we managers were doing was
we were we were trying to fight
bureaucracy. We were busting
bureaucracy. We're trying to take out
complications, simplify, prioritize.
Um and so that was, you know, 1999.
And then, you know, like fast forward
to,
oh, 15 years later and I noticed, wow,
you know, we're we're we're still doing
that.
>> Yeah.
>> Only the thing I noticed is is like
we're doing all this bureaucracy
busting, but things are only getting
worse. You're kind of like, hm,
what's going on here? You know, it's
kind of like if imagine you had a
disease and the more you tried to treat
the disease, the worse it got. you you
kind of have to rethink your strategy.
So I I think that's kind of a starting
point.
>> I I find with HubSpot like the bigger we
got, the less we got done. Do you feel
the same way?
>> Yeah. Yeah. Um that's that's I I had the
same kind of thing because I went from a
30 person enterprise to a 700 person
enterprise and then that 700 person
enterprise merged with another and we
became 5,000. Then I went to like a
10,000 person organization. and then a
100,000 person organization. I noticed
that. Yeah. It it the bigger you got,
the worse it got. Yeah.
>> Like for example, in the 30 person
organization,
you'd see an opportunity and you just do
it. Or you see an opportunity and you
need some help. So you call a couple of
your friends and at at lunch because
you're just eating around the same
table. You got only got a little table,
you know, in your in your like little
break room. And uh you just go, "Hey,
what what if we do this?" and before
lunch is over, you've decided, "Yeah,
we're gonna do this." And you and you do
it. And then and then I go to
like from a 700 person organization to a
5,000 person organization, that same
activity. Oh, you you can't just talk to
two people. you got to talk to like
seven people and then they got to talk
to their managers and then you got to
have like a follow-up meeting and you
know maybe
occasionally you actually get something
done but a lot of times things just
don't happen because it's it there's
just too much overhead.
>> Okay. So t talk about is bare is a lot
of people you joined and you made
massive changes. I read somewhere that
you eliminated 11 layers of management.
you took the rule book from 3,000 pages
to I figured like you really have kind
of torn it down and are rebuilding it.
What are some of the what are you up to?
Maybe before I answer that, let me just
just complete sort of the analogy. The
there's a common thought among managers
that bureaucracy is is kind of like a
virus that infects the the healthy
organization or the healthy healthy
organism and then you got to kind of
take the virus out.
>> Yeah.
>> And I would argue that's actually the
wrong way to think about it. The the
truth is that it's not that the
organization is healthy and then it gets
a virus. Is actually the composition of
the organization is what's creating
bureaucracy. Yeah.
>> You know, like think about it. Nobody
gets up in the morning and says some
manager in a in a big multinational
company gets up in the morning and says,
"Hey, I'm going to go be a bureaucrat."
Like nobody thinks like that. It's it's
and so um so I mention that because it's
it's actually the presence of 10 or 12
layers. It's the fact that things are
organized
by this kind of functional org chart
instead of being organized around the
customer around the product. Right? It's
th those are the things those layers the
the need for signoffs the the fact that
people four layers removed from the
product or the customer are actually
decision gatekeepers.
>> Y
>> that is what is bureaucracy. It so it's
you can't you can't actually just take
out the bureaucracy. You you have to
take out the parts of the system that
make the bureaucracy. So, what we've
done at Bayer, we um when I arrived, we
had 11 to 12 layers and now we have six
to seven. Okay. Now, you might think,
well, six to seven, that's still a lot
of layers. But if you consider that,
>> not that many for 100,000 person or it's
not.
>> Yeah, exactly. It it it goes really fast
when you're counting them, you know?
It's like
>> specifically for you, how many direct
reports do you have?
>> Um I have actually I don't know how many
I have. Maybe
14 or something.
>> Okay,
>> 12. Um, so what we've done is we've
we've taken out the layers. By the way,
lots of people talk about taking out
layers. In fact, pretty much every reorg
someone some says, "Oh, we got to take
out layers." Um, usually that's missing
the point. If you have a 12 layer
organization and you take out two
layers, which is probably the the
average big corporate reorg, they'd be
lucky to take out two layers. That does
nothing. If if the basic way things are
done, decisions are made up and down the
hierarchal functions. Uh you have annual
budgets where the money is divided into
thousands of little cost centers and
those are kind of like the money's
trapped. They're like money traps,
right? Um
if that's how you're operating your
business, it it's not going to get
meaningfully better. You can make it for
example yeah it's better to have 10
layers than 12 but the same basic
problems are going to persist and so
what we've done is we've taken out
we've taken out so many layers and we've
expanded people's span of we we don't
call it span of control we call it span
of coaching
we do that not because it's a clever
name but because we have lots of people
in our organization
Well, let let me give you the facts
first and then I'll give you examples.
So, our average span of control was 6
and a half, which isn't actually that
bad. A lot of large companies, it might
be five. We're now at 14, and it's still
going up. We're not done. And if you
look into that, what you find is we have
all kinds of people with with 20 direct
reports, 30 direct reports. The most I
know of, we have some people with 90
direct reports.
The reason I mention that is not to be
obsessed with the math. Think about
this. Let's say you're managing five
people, you know, and you've got your
drill like, okay, you have annual
performance plans and goals and they're
going to review them with the manager
and you're you're hiring and firing and
you're managing performance issues and
all that stuff. Okay? You're managing
that. You're doing that for five people.
Now, you come into work the next day and
the boss says, "Hey, you know what?
You're gonna manage 90 people instead of
five.
>> You think your work's gonna change?
>> If you're doing one-on- ones, your your
schedule's done.
>> Yeah. I mean, think about it. How many
one-on- ones could you do? So, right.
You you're not doing one-on- ones.
You're not you're not doing the same
job. It's a different job. So, instead
of the idea that the management is
directing the activity of the
organization, that's done. Command and
control, forget about it. you you can't
command and control an organization
that's that flat.
You you have to switch to a mindset that
hey the the people of the organization
are owning the business. They are
whether they're engineers or aronomists
or doctors or lawyers or what whatever
their job is salespeople they actually
they and their colleagues their their
peers are owning the business. And the
job of people in management is simply to
uh kind of like be greasing the skids,
you know, to be figuring out, hey,
where's there a bottleneck? Where
where's the where's, you know, where
where are things stuck? And so we
actually we have a yeah, we have a a
description for that model. But but
that's the idea. So that's what we're
doing. We're we're getting rid of annual
budgets.
>> Everything is on 90 90-day cycles. the
whole organization including the
leadership team and every 90 days
groups of people come together and say
hm what are we going to do the next 90
days what are the most important things
and then we spend one day every 90 days
planning so evaluating what happened the
last 90 days what are we going to do the
next 90 days can we do it with fewer
people if you know if a couple people
from our team we don't need anymore
they're going to go join another team
right so this is happening every 90 days
10 or 15% of the organization is moving
to a different team um teams are
collapsing like teams go away and new
teams are formed so you know again you
have some standing teams like let's say
there's some molecule you're going to
launch in five years time well the the
product development team is not going
away in 90 days un unless you unless you
fail in in trials or something So you
have some teams that are durable teams
and you have other teams that are that
form for 90 days, 180 days and then they
go away. So that's what we're doing at
Bear.
>> Okay. So I had a lot of questions on
that. Um h you know at some level you
have priorities like you're trying to
get some stuff done. You're trying to
drive some results. you've in your head
you have priorities like how do you come
up with the priorities and how do you
roll them down to what seems more like a
jazz band than an orchestra.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Well, here's the thing. An
orchestra there's a there's a score.
>> Mhm.
>> Businesses don't have a score
unless you're just doing the same thing
over and over again.
>> They have an earnings call.
>> Yeah. But that's not a score. Mhm.
>> That's where the earnings call is where
you got to go and present your results.
>> Yeah.
>> The the investors don't care how you got
it. They want to know what you
delivered.
>> Yeah.
>> And and so yeah, business is a lot more
like jazz than it is like, you know,
Beethoven. And
>> I think most businesses are more like
Beethoven than And the bigger they are,
the more likely are they are like
Beethoven than they are a startup is
more like a jazz man in my mind.
But think about that, you know. So, so
is that good?
>> Not necessarily.
Definitely not necessarily. Um, but it
seems like gravity as organizations get
bigger, they they they look more and
more like orchestras. They're more
structured. There's more layers. The
planning is longer. The budgeting is
much stricter. And so, you seem to have
broken all that down. And I spent a lot
of time build just like coaching. I
basically coach startup founders and try
to teach them how to be scaleup CEOs.
Like how do they make that move from
startup founder to scaleup CEO without
turning into an orchestra, without
turning into, you know, a sclerotic
slow, you know, how do they avoid it
from the g from the get-go?
>> Well, they usually don't.
>> Yep. Um,
and if you look at the big tech
companies, yeah,
>> what I can tell from people I know
who've worked in them or working in them
now as an example, most of most of them
are big bureaucracies now, big command
and control. They have all the normal
corporate mechanisms.
>> Yeah.
>> And
now I want to be clear about something
and this is this is a bit of a
headscratcher for a lot of people.
You can do worse than having a
hierarchical bureaucracy.
In fact, a well-run hierarchical
bureaucracy
can deliver
okay performance.
And the the way I think about it, and I
use this analogy a lot, it's kind of
like there's hierarchy hill
>> and hierarchy hill think about it this
way. Let's say you've got two 10,000
person organizations. Each of them has
the top hundred people that are
basically calling the shots. Y
>> and the other 99,900 people are more or
less order takers.
>> Okay. Which means they're not that
motivated. They're not they're not
killing themselves to deliver new
innovation or because it's too hard.
>> Yeah.
>> Because if they have to work their way
up through eight layers to get anything
done, it's exhausting.
>> They Yeah. They know, hey, that's not
really what's being expected of me. They
just expect me to, you know,
comply. All right. Now, if you have two
of these organizations, one of them,
let's say the CEO and the executive team
are more concerned about improving their
golf handicap, and the other one, the
CEO and the executive team are totally
into the customers, the products, the
technology. They're they're really into
it. Well, which one of those do you
think is gonna perform better?
>> Yeah.
>> Right. And and by the way, this that
latter one
>> I like to call it the missionaries
versus the mercenaries.
>> Yeah. So like say more how do you
describe those?
>> I kind of like when I think of HubSpot
in the early days um like you think of
the first 10 employees like
the reason the first 10 employees joined
HubSpot is very different than the
hundredth to the 110th versus the
thousandth to the thousandth to the etc
etc. value prop we we espouse and so
everyone sort of joined because they
they love the mission or they like their
colleagues they didn't play golf uh they
were completely focused on probably
worked 100 hours a week and just
naturally and by the way I think this is
okay and natural you should put off in
my mind sorry put off as long as
possible but there's a natural
progression where the reason someone
joins a 10,000 employee company is very
different than a 10 person and you're
going to have people who are more
mercenaries who have a life thank
goodness and have different priorities.
So, it changes over time.
>> And I guess what I'm curious about you
guys is like it's a 100,000 flocking
people. That's a lot. How many do you
actually have that you think are the
missionary types?
Look, you know this, Brian, there's
there's a hundred or a thousand ways to
kind of simplify the world, categorize,
etc. I mean, I don't I don't really work
with the missionary um
missionary uh uh mercenary model so much
because what I find is that almost
everyone is capable of being of having
kind of missionary zeal about something.
>> Love that. You know, I I I have um uh a
brother-in-law who who was a cop and um
and you know,
but he was really into what he did
in in you know, in his job, but he
because of the nature of the being a be
being a policeman, he had a lot of free
time. and in his free time where he
wasn't, you know, he wasn't fighting
city hall literally, you know, he he
was, you know, he was building amazing
things. He was organizing
um uh trips for people from his church
to rebuild houses that got destroyed by
tornadoes. And he would organize the
whole thing, man.
>> They they would show up and like rebuild
a house in two weeks. Yeah.
>> You know, like a team of 15. So he he
was he was missionary in his spare time
and he was an employee in his job. And
the way I look at it is every every bear
person can be
allin on the bear mission. And the
question is are we going to create the
environment that makes that normal?
>> Yeah. or would you have to be kind of
weird to actually do that because you're
you're always fighting city hall?
>> Yeah. Okay. So, let's just say I'm a
founder. I'm 100% company. It's scaling.
It's very flat. I've interviewed
everyone and I'm going from a 100 to a
thousand. So, I work with tons of tons
of CEOs in this spot. How do I avoid the
oification? How do I avoid the
orchestra? How do I avoid the mercenary?
whatever you want to call it. What
advice do you have for me as as that
>> I'm on a rocket ship. I'm CEO of a
rocket ship. 100 employees going to a
thousand.
>> Don't hire professional managers.
>> Huh. But my venture capitalists, the
first thing they say when I raise my
series B is, "You need to uple uplevel
your team." What do I say when they say
that, Bill?
>> Look at Look at um
>> Not kidding, by the way. Look at look at
a company like Amazon.
>> They did not hire professional managers.
They they had the same people who were
there when there was five people
when there was a 500 and 5,000 and
50,000.
you know, they because they correctly
intuited that if they went and hired
professional managers, they end would
end up with a dull, mediocre
organization. And again, by the way,
it's not the manager's fault. This is
this is this. It's a system. It's a way
of organizing.
and and if you hire but if you hire
managers who've been trained that that
is what good looks like that's what
they're going to implement.
>> Okay.
>> Now now you may need to uplevel
>> like for example you might have a a a
person who's the finance person
>> who who was capable of of leading in a
10erson organization who's not capable
of of leading in a thousand person
organization. Y
>> but that doesn't mean the answer is to
hire a professional manager as your CFO.
It means you got to find a better CFO
who is dynamic and isn't thinking like a
bureaucrat. And and you may say, well,
where do you find those people? Yeah,
okay. It gets a little, you know, that's
a longer conversation. Yep. Bill, both
of us are while we're on this, both of
us are MBAs. We went to Sloan School in
Silicon Valley. you dependency is it's
like people aren't that psyched about
MBAs like they used to be if they ever
were. What's your take on that? Like
you're interviewing somebody for, you
know, one of these more entrepreneurial
CFO jobs or whatever it would be. Are
you allergic to NBAs or you like them?
Actually, I'm I'm pretty um
I love education
and I love people who are lifelong
learners. I don't I don't spend a lot of
time looking at whether or not someone
has an MBA or not. In fact, the the the
executive leadership team at Bayer is
six people total, including me. And
honestly, I couldn't even tell you if
anybody I know I have an MBA. I I
honestly couldn't even tell you if any
of the other ones have an MBA or not.
They pro probably a couple of them do,
but I didn't even notice. Um it's it's
now of course part of that is like when
you're hiring somebody who's when you're
at a lower level and you're hiring
someone who's 25 you might think about
it differently than when you're hiring
people you know later in career.
>> Okay. So vice vice number one got that
avoid that advice let me let me just
kind of go through things that CEOs ask
me about like you're 100 employees
it's pretty chaotic uh you're growing
fast and like budgeting is chaotic
planning is chaotic. Okay, the venture
capitalist says, "Let's put an annual
budgeting cycle in. Let's meet our
budgets. Uh, let's plan the year very
carefully." And you plan it, let's say,
in September for the next year to start
January. And then by the time July rolls
around, the whole world has freaking
changed. What advice do you have to that
CEO who's trying to scale and is dealing
with a lot of chaos right now?
>> Yeah. So,
this is classic. So the way a a complex
organization,
a bureaucratic organization handles that
situation, like okay, we we got to have
financial discipline, the way they
handle that is we got to we got to pin
down where every dollar is going to go
in advance.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, it's a it's kind of logical,
but it doesn't work. In other words,
okay, if it's November now, I got to
figure out how all where all the money
is going to go.
>> Yep.
>> In the next 12 months. um kind of down
to the department, the activity, you
know, etc. And and we think when we're
doing that that we're actually somehow
creating value
>> because like we've specified it,
>> but as you said,
>> the whole world changes. And by the way,
that that's true in startups, but it's
it's pretty true in big multinationals,
too.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And and so what we do now is
we we we we call it a two-tier resource
allocation approach. We we call it
dynamic resource flow. So tier one would
be like your agreement with the venture
capitalists. Okay. Tier one would be hey
we're going to spend
$2 million in the next 12 months and or
whatever it is $20 million in the next
12 months and we're going to deliver the
at a high level. these are the big
things we're going to deliver while
we're doing that. Okay, that's tier one
and that's where the kind of nailing it
down because hey, we've committed to our
investors or we've committed, you know,
like so that you can't really give on.
But that's okay because it's it's high
level. It's it's like now at tier two
you don't do you so so the normal
corporate thing is you take that that
let's say it's 20 million and you divide
it up into a h 100,000 here and 500,000
there and you assign those numbers to
individuals and you tell them you're
accountable for this you're accountable
for this and then they all are incented
basically to spend whatever that number
is not more not less okay but of course
that's stupid because the world's
changing and you don't want that money
divided up that way because in by July
that doesn't make sense anymore. Yeah.
>> So So instead of doing that, you you go
with your 20 million number. That's tier
one. And tier two, you've got a resource
pool. It's got 20 million in it. You've
got leaders. Maybe maybe you're you're
um you've got, I don't know, five
program teams and an administrative
team. And the five program teams are
each working on some, you know, product
they're developing. And then you've got
a administrative team. They're
responsible for keeping the lights on
and whatever. Okay, you're having a
conversation,
a regular conversation about, okay, when
we took the 20 million and we roughly
assigned it across those six teams, but
there's nothing special about that
assignment. It's not the it's not the
basis for your end ofear bonus. It's not
it's not like, oh, if you spend less,
you're you're great. And if you spend
more, you're a dog or whatever. It's
it's just a starting point because we're
on January 1st. This is sort of where we
are right now. So now everybody go work
for 90 days. Do your best to drive your
product forward to thrill your your
prospects and to treat the company's
money like it's your own money. And then
we're going to come back after 90 days
and just sort of check in. Okay?
Oh, and team A says, "Actually, you
know, we've hit a roadblock and we're
we're kind of stuck." So, you say, "Oh,
team A, you're stuck. Let's I tell you
what, you're you're waiting for feedback
from a regulator. It's going to take six
months. So, we're going to take all the
people from team A and and put them on
the other teams.
And um we're going to take all the money
that was in team A. We're going to
spread that over to the other teams.
Okay, let's talk about team B. Ah, team
B, we're we've got a new opportunity. We
can actually do more. So, okay, good.
Let's take some of those team A people,
right? And and even more than that,
you're you're doing this in a way that
it's actually the teams that are sorting
this out. It's not like the boss is
deciding all this. Okay? So, that's and
and and at the end of the year, nobody's
a hero because they're the their
allocation at the beginning of the year
was 5 million and they only spent four.
No, no. We'll talk about we'll talk
about your performance at the end of the
year in a peer review session. Okay,
let's get into it. So, tip number one,
careful of hiring professional managers.
Tip number two is this different type of
budgeting that's is a high level one,
but it it sort of the midlevel. It's
90-day cycles, not um yearly cycles.
Let's talk about
>> it's 90-day cycles and it's not the
basis for performance management. See,
that's where a lot of a lot of
bureaucracy gets created by by each team
thinking, "Oh, it's my job to spend this
much, not more, not less." You're kind
of locking it in where you say, "No,
that that's just that's kind of funds
available, but you should try to spend
less if you can and and make more
progress if you can, right?" And we'll
talk about how you did later.
>> Okay. So, I I'm I'm Joe Smith. I'm a
frontline manager, coach, just I'm the
CEO and I'm trying to design the
organization like how do performance
reviews work? If you're a 100 person
company, you don't want all this this
complexity creep in. How do how does the
work chart work and how do performance
reviews work? And Brian, a little
caveat, okay? I mean, I don't think 100
person companies are that much of an
intellectual challenge from a an
organization model standpoint. In
general, if you got a bureaucratic 100
person organization, then man, I don't
know, something's wrong. Fine. But by a
thousand people, it creeps in.
>> Yeah. Thousand people, different story.
Okay.
>> So, you're at a 100, you want to go to a
thousand. You don't want to be
sclerotic.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Here here's a here's a
departure.
Usually, if you're going from a hundred
to a thousand, and I've been on that
journey, that's where that is generally
where you start bringing in the
professional managers.
It's it's usually more in the like 500
going to a couple thousand. You can kind
of get away with the really informal
stuff. I don't know, up to 300, 500, but
then it starts to big decision you have
to make is are you going to make
managers responsible for performance
management?
>> Okay. or are you gonna draw on the power
of the of the
>> of of all the peers and the doers?
>> Okay.
>> And when you make that decision, you are
sort of deciding the fate of whether
this is going to continue to feel like a
startup or whether it's going to be
really take a a major fork in the road
towards a hierarchical organization.
>> Got it. Okay. So, the performance review
comes around every 90 days, 180, how
often? And then who who decides if I'm
going to get a 2% raise or a 10% raise?
>> I I'll give you a model for it. It's not
the only one, but think about it this
way. Uh we're working our way to a
thousand people. Yeah. You're probably
going to have
you're probably going to find that you
need, I don't know,
15, 20, maybe 30, even 40 managers. If
you had 40 managers, they'd have 25
direct reports on average. Okay.
So, you're somewhere in this range of
like 25 to 50 direct reports per
manager. If you're in that range, then
you're first off, the managers, they're
not reviewing and approving everything.
You're hiring smart people. These smart
people, they they they
worked hard to get to your company, you
know? Uh they don't need to be told what
to do and babysat. They're going to have
they're going to be all on teams. Yeah.
>> And they will uh every 90 days they're
going to get feedback from their peers.
Whoever they worked with the most
they're going to get feedback and it's a
simple feedback system. They got a one
that means great job. Yeah.
>> Love working with you, you know, great
impact. Uh two is wow, this person's
really off the charts. like they are
they're clearly performing above what
anybody would ever normally expect.
>> Yeah.
>> And a zero is like hey uh
>> needs improvement.
>> Not good enough.
>> Yeah. Needs to be better. Okay. And and
then you get they're answering two
questions. One question question is what
was this person's major impact in the
last 90 days and what could they have
done to be even better?
>> Yeah.
>> Two questions. Every 90 days, everyone
in the organization is getting th those
questions answered from all their peers.
And it turns out people actually care a
lot more what their peers think than
they think what what their boss thinks.
>> Okay. How about the cashola? Yeah.
>> How do you describe the cashish? How
about the cashish?
>> Yeah. Here's a learning. Here's a
learning. And I've I've um I've heard
this from a number of people who've been
down this path and I've come to believe
it through my experience and and the
experiments that I've run. What you
don't do is you don't take that rating
that I just described. You get at the
end of the year and let's say you've got
40 numbers, right? Because you you've
done it every 90 days and you've worked
with let's say 10 people each 90 days.
So you let's say you got a um this one
person's got a 1.2 two and somebody else
has got a 1.3 and somebody else has got
a 0.9.
That doesn't become their multiplier.
>> Okay.
>> For their bonus because if you do that,
you sort of weaponize the peer feedback
system.
>> Yeah. Of course. Yes.
>> Then people they feel like
>> I give you a one if you give me a one,
right? Of course.
>> Yeah. or or or like I can't just rate
the person as I believe I should rate
them cuz I'm thinking, "Oh, I think they
really need the money or something." You
know, it's just you don't want to do
that. And by the way, people are It's
really funny. I do I often do this in
large groups. I'll ask people. I say,
"Who do you think has a a better more
objective view of your impact, your boss
or your peers?" You know, and I ask
like, "Okay, who says boss?
Who says Pierce?
>> Right.
>> It'll be like It'll be like 98 of a 98
out of 100 people will say Pierce.
>> Yeah.
>> Then I say, "Who do you think should do
your performance evaluation? Your boss
or your peers?"
>> Boss.
Pierce.
Okay. This is this is um we're we're
working with humans. Humans are not
logic machines.
>> No. you know, and and so we're so we're
implementing this now at Bayer
worldwide. We're at 90,000 right now. Uh
when I started, we had a little over
100,000. We're at 90,000. By the way,
most of the positions we've eliminated,
the vast majority were management
management positions. What we're saying,
we're we're implementing this peer peer
uh um uh assessment, pure feedback.
Okay? And we're telling people, hey,
everybody breathe deeply, right? We have
great people. This is we we want to
learn from our peers because our peers
know us better than our managers do. And
and if if one of the major goals of the
people of Bayer is to grow and to get
better as a result of being a part of
this team, then we owe it to each other
to give each other this feedback.
>> Yeah. We're going to put a we're going
to put a hard break between the peer
feedback and the comp.
And it doesn't mean that it's
irrelevant. So if I'm a manager of 50
people at the end of the year, I have
what my eyeballs have witnessed over the
year. I have the this feedback from you
know and I have the the the qualitative
and the quantitative. I have all that.
Um I yeah I can see what teams have
delivered. I have a variety of sources
of information and based on that I got
to make some decisions about
>> as the manager. Okay. So the manager
decides at the end of the fine. Yep.
>> Fine. Okay.
>> Got it. Okay. Titles. So, um, you know,
a lot of Silicon Valley startups these
days are like, "We're not doing titles."
What's your reaction?
>> I actually don't even really care. I I
can't
>> Well, your employees care.
>> Yeah. You know, I we we first off, it's
funny. We haven't we haven't tackled
this in earnest. It's funny. It hasn't
been a big topic. It doesn't mean that
nobody cares about titles, but I think
we we sort of say, hey, um,
if you if you need a certain title to
get your job done, then, you know, like
let's talk to your manager about it and,
you know, talk
this isn't a conventional wisdom you're
blowing up.
>> No, because you know, titles are are one
of those things where you can go around
in circles. Y
>> and
>> at the end of the day,
>> if your goal is to advance science and
to do great things for customers,
>> spending a lot of time talking about
titles is not doing either of those
things.
>> That's great. Coming from you, you're
the CEO, you have a good title, but like
you're a middle manager. So, I'll tell
you my experience with this. I tried to
get rid of titles at HubSpot, probably
around 50 employees. I was like, it's
ridiculous. We spend so much damn time
talking about this title. It adds no
value to our customers. And I got rid of
them. And then I was lobbied hard on
this the titles thing. And the thing
that kind of got me was
I'm I'm not going to say let's say Frank
Smith went home. He was going home for
Thanksgiving and he was a he was a
manager before and now he was a nothing
and he's like I know I'm going to see my
uncle Joe and my uncle Joe's be like
okay did you get promoted? Are you a
director now? And he's like no I didn't
get promoted. I'm a nothing now. And by
the way I'm a sales man. I used to be a
sales manager. Now, when I call on
people, they don't know where I am in
the hierarchy. And and like Napoleon
used to say, it's amazing what a soldier
will do for another color ribbon on
their shoulder. And so, I got kind of I
got worn down on it and I brought titles
back, but but anyway, it doesn't sound
like this is one of your your trust
busting ideas around CEOing.
>> Yeah, it's not. So, so in other words,
I'm not I'm not trying to get rid of
titles. It's just not It's kind of like
the org chart. We've done this with the
org chart, too. In our model, we still
have an org chart. We just put it I
always say we put it at the back of the
room. It It's just It's like it's not
that important. And And I know you could
say, "Oh, yeah, but it it it determines
pay and pay is important, but the org
chart is not that important." U you
know, but I tried that, too. And I I
remember I I I didn't never had novice
and I there was a whiteboard near my
desk and I drew on the whiteboard
instead of have an or chart I drew this
is what I think our influence chart is
and bunch of boxes and arrows and
whatever and I asked it like can you
look at our email instance and see who's
got the most influence and they took a
crack at it and anyway the most powerful
person at HubSpot at the time this is
probably 30 people was a guy named Brad
Coffee who ironically came, he was our
first intern and just knew everything.
And so I wasn't the most influential
person. It was this, you know, young guy
who was really capable. Um, and I tried
that for a while and I I sort of got
talked out of that, too. And one of my
regrets, Bill, over time is I had some
ideas that were like counterintuitive to
how you build an org and a little bit
like your ideas, and I got talked out of
them over time, and I regret some of
that. Hm.
Yeah. Here's the tricky thing and and I
think it just it takes practice and it
takes experimentation.
Um because
you now you notice I said org charts
become less important. And what you just
described was something where you're
trying to replace an org chart with some
other kind of chart. But I'm not doing
that either.
You see it's it's sort of like a lot of
these things. can be various methods or
or like titles versus no titles, you
know, like saying there's going to be no
titles is the CEO being in control.
Banishing titles. Saying, you know what,
titles just don't matter that very much.
If if you want some big title, knock
yourself out. But frankly, that's just
not where the organization is going to
put its energy. That's actually not
control.
>> That's kind of like saying, we're going
to we're going to trust people. And now
again, be really careful here. I'm not
saying that what we're doing at Bayer is
the old uh hire great people and turn
them loose. That's a that's a failed
plan. That that works. If most people
who say that, they only say it because
they're not really doing it. Um or if
they ever try to really do it, like
literally turn everyone loose, it it
lasts about a day. Uh it's chaos. And
nobody likes chaos. People will take,
you know, dictatorship over chaos
anyway. So it's we we took out a lot of
stuff, but we put back a lot of stuff,
too. I mean, we didn't put it back. We
put in stuff. So, for example, 90 days,
we have these 90-day rituals. You know,
every 90 days, the team comes together.
First thing they do is they do a retro.
Look at, hey, how did things go the last
90 days? Did we achieve the three
outcomes we said we were going to
achieve? And if we didn't, what why not?
What went wrong? You know, so again, not
spending days staring at our belly
buttons, but like spending, you know, an
hour. Hey, what what went wrong? Now,
what what are the most important things
for the next 90 days? By the way, are we
still are we still comfortable with our
long-term vision on our team? like we're
still trying to launch product X with
certain features by certain time. If
that if that's that team's kind of
longer term vision, still feeling right.
Yep. Okay. Um then okay. Now, what are
we going to do the next 90 days? This is
all all and and we have outcomes, not
outputs,
not not like um we're going to sell
more. That's an output. you know,
outcome would be we're going to improve
the performance of this part of the
product.
>> Yeah.
>> By so much. Um or we're gonna, you know,
whatever. It's something the customer
says they need. We're going to deliver
that. And and so these are these rituals
and the fact that everybody's on 90day
cycles.
The this is a a new or a different way
of operating, but it's not one that
lacks discipline. Every, by the way,
everyone's on the same 90-day cycle. the
ideas so that if this team dissolves,
there's somewhere for the people to go
because there's other teams forming. You
see? So, it's it's um it's it's one of
these things that a lot of times people
get trapped in the idea of control
versus sort of decentralization kind of
anything goes. We're trying to put in a
place, think of it more like a a a
really stiff backbone. Y
>> but the arms and the legs can go, you
know, go wild.
>> Okay. I like that. Okay. All right. So,
you came into Bear
over a year ago.
Yeah. You made you you pretty quickly
you made some massive changes. I have
and I have a couple questions on that.
Um I guess my first question is
um
do you think you went too fast or too
slow on that?
H
>> um I I don't know if you're going to
like this answer, but um
I think on the one hand we went really
fast seems that
>> um
and on the other hand I I don't think
how I say bear
was facing a lot of pretty big
challenges and in addition to some sort
of technical challenges we faced we had
this organizational problem where
whereby the people of Bayer were
passionate about the company's mission,
about the about the quality of the
science, about great people. Um, right.
But everyone agreed, hey man, we can't
get anything done around here. I see
>> this place is so bureaucratic.
Now, as I said earlier, I mean, I don't
know that I don't know if Bayer was the
most bureaucratic company I've seen.
Maybe not. But the fact that some of the
some of the technical challenges we
faced made that bureaucracy really
unacceptable,
you know, like people will put up with a
lot of bureaucracy if sales are growing
10%. Um, and we, you know, we were
facing patent experies and things. So
people were like, hey, we're we're
bureaucratic and we're hosed, man. We we
got to like this isn't going to work.
So, um I don't think we could have gone
slower because if we had gone slower, we
you know, we're facing existential
threats.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I I I kind of think it's a little
bit like baby bears porridge. I I think
we've probably gone about the right
speed.
>> Okay. and
kind of listening to you. This is going
to sound weird, but like you some of
your ideas sound like Tony Sha's ideas,
the CEO of Zapos a while back who had
this idea of hocrisy and he was trying
to rethink how an organization worked
and um actually I was kind of inspired
by Tony back in the day. Um,
who in like you're doing some pretty
unusual stuff. Who are you? Are you just
kind of making it up as you go? Am I
right? Was are who who inspires you? Is
Elon inspiring you? Is who is it? Who is
the best turnaround story that you might
be follow? Like who are you looking up
to? Well, first off, let me say
there've been very few turnaround
stories of this kind. Most of the
organizations that are running a system
similar to what I've described,
>> yeah,
>> they built it from the ground up or they
implemented it early on.
>> Yeah.
>> So, actually my kind of specialty is
doing this in places that are already
established. Y
>> and I I um I was I became CEO of
Janentech. Uh
I basically landed in the role in in
second half of 2016
>> and I found that hey things were things
had gotten remarkably bureaucratic for a
company that was known for innovation.
>> Yeah.
>> The innovation the innovative spirit was
still there. The the culture was okay
but the mechanics were broken.
>> I see
>> by the levels and by the governance
processes and all this stuff. Right. And
at that time I had no idea. I had zero
idea what to do about it. I mean I
guarantee you I had no idea. In fact I
was almost despairing because at that
point I'd been I'd been around the
organization for 10 years and I knew
that during those 10 years there had
been non-stop efforts to stop
bureaucracy.
>> Yeah.
>> So
>> didn't work.
>> Yeah. And and so that's that's where I
mentioned you know this sort of insight
that like hey it's not bureaucracy is
not an external thing that comes in and
and infects this sort of healthy body.
The body is designed wrong
>> built built bureaucratic from the ground
up.
>> Yeah. It's been built it's been built
that way. So um so I spent a couple
years there and then I became the CEO of
Rosh uh Pharma which is the parent
company of Janentech and and so I had uh
yeah like six years
>> to practice
>> half seven years to practice this stuff
before I got to Bayer
>> and now but I that's part of the answer.
So it's not like I just started we
started making this stuff up when I got
to Bayer that that that could never have
happened. It would have been
overwhelming. Um, there were lots of
inspirations and it wasn't just me. I I
mean there was a bunch of people I was
working with and I I I I could barely
take credit for anything that's in this
system. Almost all the insights came
from somebody else. Um, there was a book
I read called Reinventing Organizations.
>> Yeah.
>> By a guy named Lulu. Have you seen it,
Brian?
>> Yeah. I don't think I read it, but I
remember hearing about it.
>> Yeah. And it and it talks about teal.
Um, and maybe you've heard that term.
That's a really interesting read that
was that was there um got me started. I
learned about this organization Bertzorg
in in uh the Netherlands. That's
probably the most radical because they
have 16,000 employees and two managers.
>> Interesting. Okay. What's it How do you
spell that?
>> It's like B U R T Z.
>> One of those. One of those. Okay.
>> Yeah. And And it it it basically Yeah.
So the thing and again I'm not I'm not
hung up on the statistics.
It's the shock factor because you go wow
16,000 employees and two managers. Well
if um if you have a performance problem
who do you think deals with that the
managers or the employees?
>> I think you're going to say employees
>> right? If uh got to decide about um
you know u we we need our team can't
handle the workload um we need to split
into two teams. Who who do you think
decides that the management or the
employees?
>> And so on
>> performance evaluation who do you think
does that the management or the
employees?
>> Employees.
>> And the answer to everything is
basically the employees. and they have
like 30 coaches and 30
whatever you call it back office, you
know, payroll and whatever, right? And
then and then the other tens of
thousands are all individual
contributors um doing their work and and
so going to school on that and then
saying how in the world do you apply
that to a complex integrated product
development life science company where
there's so many interdependencies
because at Bertzorg they they have a
bunch of teams that are like yeah
thousand literally thousands of teams
but they're all kind of doing the same
work because they're they're providing
home health care services.
So they they're they're somewhat
independent, right? They they don't have
to coordinate across all these teams.
But if you're if you're developing a new
pharmaceutical, you know, a new
medicine, that might require two or
three thousand people to put their hands
on that over a over a 12 or 15 year
period from all different functions and
right. So
>> so that's why we don't have two managers
uh at Bayer. You need a little more
coordination than that.
>> You need more Yeah. more more support
and coordination.
>> Okay. One thing I've noticed about a lot
of the CEOs I admire like Steve Jobs
and Bill Gates and Jeff Bezos and Elon
Musk and Jensen Hong, mostly tech is
they have exceptionally thick skin and
they're almost immune to criticism. Like
they're alligator skin. you must have
gotten a lot of criticism for your
approach particularly from all the
layers that you you probably pushed out
or do you have exceptionally thick skin
or does it does it hit you between the
eyes and for me I don't and I think one
of my weaknesses as a CEO is I'm a bit
of a pleaser I wanted to be popular and
as I look back at my tenure I kind of
wish I I was tougher and I I could
withstand criticism better but where are
you on the spectrum of alligator skin
versus me.
>> Let let me offer you an observation.
Those CEOs you mentioned, they're a bit
of a type.
>> They are
>> these are these are kind of innovator uh
product innovators
and that is that's that can be a great
kind of CEO, great kind of leader. Um,
but that's a very distinctive kind of
leader. And
uh, it, by the way, it has certain
positive features and others that are
not so positive. I I'm I'm not going to
name names because I don't want to get
into name calling or that kind of thing,
but some of the people on your list were
pretty pretty hopeless organization
managers and they had to put people in
place around them that could actually
make the organization work because if it
was up if if they were in charge of
making the organization work, it
wouldn't it would fall apart.
>> Yep.
>> All right. So, you kind of
>> One, by the way, one thing I noticed
about all of them
>> is
>> they're all lifelong learners big time.
>> Yep. Yep. And they're all a bit of
compulsive. They're obsessed.
>> And yeah, they did bring in people, but
most of them got better at it over time.
Like Steve Jobs got a lot better at it.
Bill Gates got a lot better at it. They
all got better at it over time. They
they knew to if they they want to
achieve their dream, they had to improve
on. So they all worked on their the CEO
craft. Anyway, back to you. Are you
thick or thin skinned?
>> Yeah. Okay. Okay. But but I I just I do
want to make the point.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> You got to decide what you're trying to
be. You know, in other words, for your
listeners that are that are trying to
grow as a CEO, you got to be you got to
be the person you are, too. Do you know,
like I'm um I'm I'm a nerd big time, you
know, engineer. I love the product
stuff. I love
>> You're a scientist, right?
>> I'm a chemical engineer. I have I have a
masters in chemical engineering and and
you know so but I'm but I've decided
that I'm not I'm not using any of those
guys you mentioned as my phenomen
>> because a lot of those guys they they
are really product visionaries like that
is their thing
>> and that's a beautiful thing that's a
beautiful gift
>> but um I'm going on different mode I
want that if if we have 90,000 people at
bear I want to have I if in those 90,000
there's a thousand that could be product
visionaries, I want to make sure that
they're they're product visionaries
coming through.
>> Yeah.
>> That and and so um so I'm not talking
about being a professional manager, by
the way. I I faulted that. But anyway,
you just got to have a you got to have a
picture for what it is you're going to
be. And then back to the thick thin
skin. Um, I'm
I'm I'm ex I'm sorry. I'm internally
referenced.
>> Okay.
>> But I'm but I'm I'm socially sensitive.
So what I mean by this is um if somebody
f first up internally referenced versus
externally referenced. Some people do
you know you ask them hey h how are you
doing today? They say well how are you?
you know, like they they're they're they
so reflect the people around them and if
if everyone else around them's happy,
they're happy, you know, as an example.
And that and that's I'm not judging
that. That's
>> is that a thing that people talk? I've
never heard of that internally
referenced. Is that a
>> Yeah, there's
>> is that like a psychology term that I
missed somewhere?
>> Thing called neurallinginguistic
programming and there's like a hundred
different ways to um it's actually
pretty cool. parametrically you can you
can kind of form
judgments. I don't mean negative
judgments but like just get to
understand people better. I'll give you
another example R. Another one's a time
constant. You know what's your time
constant? So some people a long time is
you know a century and other people a
long time is six months or a month.
>> You know
>> what's your
>> I'm kind of in between. I'm probably a
long time. you're internally referenced.
>> Internally referenced.
>> I'm a little externally referenced,
which I think is a bug, not a feature.
>> Yeah, that it can be being externally
referenced um makes you a lot better at
a lot of things like you tend to be
better with empathy. You tend to be
right um you don't miss people's
birthdays or you you don't you know you
don't say the wrong thing and offend
someone as much if you're externally
referenced generally. Okay. Um, it can
be really hard on you,
especially if you're in the business of
making hard decisions or changing
things. So, I'm I'm I'm internally
referenced, but I actually care a lot if
if somebody says, "I hate you." Well, I
got some hate mail recently.
>> Uh, actually, not it was about a
product. It was a It was like a customer
kind of thing. and and and the person
really said some really mean things
about me and they were just they were
venting, but I wrote them back and just
said, "Hey, I'm really sorry about this,
but I I don't think you're what you said
is quite fair. You know, let me say
this." And and then they wrote me back
and they were like, "Oh my goodness, I'm
so sorry I wrote that." Uh I I didn't
think that that someone would actually
read this and and um so I I do I do
care. Um, but my my personal So maybe my
my ethics is that I care what people
think, but my personality is that that
I'm pretty Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah.
>> Got it. Okay. One other topic while I
got you. This is in in my world. There's
a lot of CEOs who've been CEO for a
couple of decades. like I'm in this
segment of the software industry
software as a service and some of the
CEOs are getting tired um and they're
thinking about you know retiring what
advice do you have to those CEOs and to
the boards of directors of those
companies if they're hiring should they
hire internally or externally
um and why and the trend in Silicon
Valley is is internal um Google
Microsoft like most of the big ones But
there are some external that worked out
like Uber's worked out pretty well. Um
so advice for boards internal or
external pluses and minuses and then I
guess if external well answer that one
first then we'll get
>> so you have to understand I'm I'm like
the opposite of say your experience
because you became CEO at a very young
age and you grew with the company
>> and I um I actually I kind of done I've
done almost every level job in a
company. Yeah. Like if if Bear has if if
Bear had 12 layers when I arrived, I I
pretty much worked at each of those.
>> Yeah.
>> And um which is which is a um it's
actually a real asset in a way. Um but
on the other hand, it's like you can age
out, you know what I mean? Like that
doesn't work if it uh you know, if you
turn 100 before you get to the top, then
tire out.
>> Yeah. That's not going to really work.
Uh I've also been exposed to these
questions before about like for example
I've been the guy who was ready to be a
CEO but because nine out of 10 large
companies are going to hire inside it's
almost like the the supervisory board if
they're going outside it's it's a mark
of a crisis a problem
>> something's wrong something's wrong
>> like they didn't do their succession
planning right
>> okay and and so I've even the guys at
times sitting there thinking, "Wow, I'm
really ready to do this and I've got all
the experience. I got, you know, because
my my first I got my first job as as the
CEO of of a publicly traded company at
56."
>> You know, there were times earlier on
when I was as ready as I was when I was
56, but I I just didn't get the job. Y
>> and there were times where I saw big
companies hiring some internal person,
even some internal person that I knew,
and I thought, you know, they really
settled there. Um uh and and so I I
think the the best answer I can give you
is
>> you got to hire someone who's awesome.
And a lot of times what CEOs do is they
they have someone who's a number two.
>> Yep. and they think that that's the
natural person and they don't realize
that this is a person who thrived in
their shadow. Um but whether that person
really is going to stand alone and be
the person who because or they think oh
they'll maintain what I built but
there's no maintenance mode.
>> Yeah. I don't think there is either. If
you're in maintenance mode it's like
you're either changing or you're dead.
>> Yep.
>> Um okay. If you're a board of directors
and you're hiring from the outside and
you hire that person, what advice do you
have to that CEO who's joining?
>> You mean like they're are they're
interviewing or they're they're they got
the job and now they're coming in.
>> Yeah. You hired a new CEO from the
outside. You're let's say Google. Let's
just say if Google let their CEO go and
they're hiring someone from the outside,
what advice do you give to that new CEO
of Google if that were the case?
>> I don't know. You got to get to know the
company. You You gotta You got to get to
know the business. I don't know if I
have any big brilliant insight on this.
You know,
>> let me let let me let me put some words
in your mouth. I think what you did was
you kind of tore the house down and
rebuilt it. At least the org structure
and the way it was managed. And I
actually think that's right. If you're
looking from the outside, some
something's probably wrong. And I think
the first I think you should be
aggressive. And I think you should be
aggressive really. I think you've played
your cards right. Um and so like someone
from the outside takes over Google. I
don't think they should make incremental
change. I think they should make large
change. Um
>> I I think you I think you played your
cards very well. And the other
turnaround that I really respect is Dra.
I don't know how to say his last name at
um Uber. You know, he gets criticized a
lot, but I think he's done a really nice
job there. Uh changed culture a lot.
Like right out of the gate, big change.
I think that's the playbook for
external. I actually oddly think that's
the playbook for internal. Like I, you
know, we did this at HubSpot. Uh Yamin
Rangan, who is my number two, took over
when I uh stepped aside and she's done
great. But actually in in a little bit
of the advice in the in the playbook was
like keep it going. Let's not mess it
up. I actually think the playbook if I
had to adise her, you know, today was
like go make make change right away.
make big change right away because I
don't think you want to be a I think
caretaker CEOs are I think that's a
death no.
>> Yeah, you're you're right on. You know,
I think probably the the point is
almost every organization
whether they're whether they're in a
crisis or whether they're in a great
place. If if they're in a crisis, then
obviously the new leader needs to come
in and really quickly get to know the
people, figure out who they can trust.
uh you know assess the situation and and
come to at least some highlevel
conclusions and start moving that
direction as fast as they can bringing
the organization along.
That's kind of obvious. But if if you're
if you're named to be the CEO in some
place where let's say there's been a
successful CEO for 10 years and you're
coming in, you should never think like,
"Oh, this is just going to be I just
need to keep it going." Because chances
are whatever flaws that person had
because we all have flaws.
>> Yeah.
>> The organization's going to reflect
those flaws.
>> Yep.
>> And if they were flaws of inaction, if
they were kind of had like swept things
under the rug, if they let the
organization get too bloated or too, you
know, like decision-m slowed down and it
can be really um misleading because you
can have a situation where you come in
and like, oh, the employee engagement
survey is off the chart. Yeah. and
everybody loved the old CEO
and then you come in and you find like
oh but everyone says they can't get
anything done and you might think oh
well I guess I don't need big changes
because you know everyone liked it. Now,
sometimes people can really like some
place because it's comfortable and
because they like their peers and they
like the sound of the mission, but if if
they're not getting a lot done, then
then the organization's kind of become
content. And that's really dangerous.
So, you got to you might think, oh, I'm
just coming in and everything's going to
be, you know, kind of smooth and like
and you may find, oh, wow, this this
place actually needs a reboot. Um, even
though all the all the signs look good.
>> Yeah.
>> Okay. Last question. I a lot of the
listeners are in tech. They're
executives in tech. They're early in
their careers. They're founders of tech
companies. Advice to people who are
early in the CEO journey. Advice to
people who want to become CEOs.
Um,
go make it your business to talk to a
lot of people.
Ask Ask experienced leaders for time to
talk. You know, most people that are
Brian, you're you're younger than I am,
but um,
you know, most most people that are
later in their career, they're they're
really glad to
>> they are help.
>> I am. And you know, there's a lot of
things that I I wish I knew when I was,
you know, whatever, 38, but I know when
I'm 58. Um, so I I think getting advice
don't
>> like really trust trust your people.
Trust the people who work for you to get
to to shape you, to train you. I I know
probably the most of the mistakes I made
early in my leadership was thinking that
I was supposed to have the answers or
that I'm supposed to be like this um
invulnerable person who's you know and
you can be confident but still very open
and very approachable you know so so you
you don't be like showing up like well I
don't know whether our company should
exist and I don't know whether we really
have a good mission I'm not talking
about that but to to show up and say,
"Hey, this this company's really
important. Our mission is great. Our
technology is great, but boy, I could
really use your advice. Um, I don't
think I'm that good of a leader, and I'd
really appreciate any input you have on
how I can be more effective at helping
the company."
>> I think that's incredible advice. It's
disarmingly. It's disarming. It's
incredibly useful advice, I think.
>> Yeah.
>> I app Bill, I appreciate you. I
appreciate what you're doing at Bayer.
It's fascinating. and you're setting a
template. I hope you're wildly
successful and the company is a trillion
dollar company someday and you're on the
Mount Rushmore of CEOs. I appreciate you
very much. Thanks for coming on the show
and giving us all your wisdom.
>> Yeah, thanks Brian. Really enjoyed it
and look forward to seeing you in in
Boston one of these days.
>> That'd be great. Okay, I hope you guys
like that. I'll give you my take. Bill's
trying to kind of pull the bureaucracy
out of a 100,000 person organization. I
think where I kind of come out is I want
to figure out how I help a company going
from 10 employees to a thousand
employees so that bureaucracy never
shows up. It doesn't slow down. That
pace continues. And when I thought about
it and kind of went through it in my
head, there was a bunch of things that
came up that kind of slow companies
down. Annual planning and budgeting can
slow things down. We did this at HubSpot
around 50 employees. We got pretty
serious about how we did it. It helped a
lot and I recommend it. But I recommend
doing shorter cycles. I think if I had a
doover, particularly now with everything
going on with AI, I do my planning and I
do my budgeting in six months
increments. Layers can slow things down
and that's definitely true. The more
layers you have, the more kind of
bureaucracy and it slows down. In
particular, I found the director layer,
that kind of real middle layer in the
org. When that showed up, things slowed
down a little bit for HubSpot. A lot of
those directors were fantastic and
became VPs and seale folks, but they can
slow it down. So, I would push off that
director layer as long as I can. And I
would keep the span of reports, span of
coaching as Bill would say, to at least
1 to 10. I wouldn't have like one person
with three direct reports. I don't think
that's a good idea. Third thing is in
and I hear this from a lot of CEOs is
you know mercenaries can slow things
down and as a founder I was always kind
of managing that missionary to mercenary
ratio. You're going to end up having to
build the company with a lot of
mercenaries. So you can't totally ignore
them. I think I would just try to push
it out as long as I can. We hired some
amazing mercenaries at HubSpot that
helped us scale and so don't completely
throw that baby out in the bathwater or
charts and titles. Those can gum up the
works a little bit. I tried to get rid
of both at HubSpot around 50 employees.
I banned the org chart and I banned
titles and I stuck with it for about six
to nine months, but I went back and we
we built an org chart and we gave
everyone titles again. There's so much
time spent on work charts and titles and
it's exhausting. But the upside of them
in terms of the organization versus the
downside, I think the upside outweighs
the downside. So, I wouldn't kill those
if I were you. Uh 101 ones. One-on ones
definitely slow things down and jam the
CEO's calendar. I personally like how
Jensen Hang runs things. He doesn't have
one-on- ons. He has like 50 direct
reports and he gives feedback, tough
feedback and good feedback in public. I
sort of like the way he runs the
business. And honestly, in HubSpot in
the early days, I didn't have one-on
ones. I had these large meetings and I
kind of regret going with the more
traditional one-on- ones, the small
meetings and stuff like that. Uh, I
think Jess's got it right. compensation
and compensation bands can slow things
down. Yes, but eventually you're going
to need them. I think they're healthy. I
think where companies get in trouble is
where the the compensation system and
the org structure are kind of perfectly
matched. Uh I think you need to decouple
the position in the org chart with the
comp. In an extreme example of this is
Zuckerberg hiring, you know, developers,
scientists making hund00 million, which
is probably a lot more than his VPs. You
know, I don't know about that, but
definitely inside of your organization,
you've got individual contributors who
are adding as much if not more value
than some of your VPs. So, I would
decouple those things that if I had had
to do over. There's a lot of talk in
Silicon Valley amongst my CEO friends
about professional managers, when to
bring them in, are they good? Aren't
they good? You're going to need
professional managers eventually. My
advice would be to push it off until,
call it post 100 employees. Try to build
with your crew. Try to build that early
crew and the homegrown talent. But
eventually, you need them. Like for
example, you're going to need a VP of
sales probably at 100 employees. You're
going to need a general counsel with
experience being a lawyer at 500
employees. You're going to need a CFO at
some point. Like HubSpot couldn't have
gone public without a CFO that had seen
the movie before. So, I would push them
out. I'd also try to avoid hiring those
professional managers from ginormous
companies. There's just kind of an
impedance mismatch there. Anyway, I hope
you enjoyed it. Uh, I had fun doing it.
If you want to keep the conversation
going, ping me on X. I'm bhagan. Take
care.